Okay, I'm back live.
Hi. Some reason it's still not letting
me change the uh the title on X. That's
weird. Let me do that uh real quick.
my
title. Not dealing with Hundreds at the
moment. All
right, so here's the deal, right?
We're stuck with 3 0 on this one repro.
It's really annoying.
Um, I don't know what's wrong with it. I
suspect it's something time
based because the only thing that I can
see like the only red
flag is stuff like
this where hang
on look at this. So I told this thing to
run like 200 mil runs of 200 mil or
whatever and
like like quite as well as it
should. I mean it does decent. And it's
like a few% off here, but it doesn't run
longer and longer experiments. Like
technically, it can
do maybe it can do a little better than
this. I think it can do like 4% better
than
thisish at this number of time
steps.
Um, but it doesn't hardly run any longer
experiments at all.
So, we're going to see with this run,
this new one, whether it runs longer
experiments, and if not, if it actually
does something reasonable with a 300 mil
budget instead of a 200 mil
budget. 300 mil should be enough for it
to do things. But we're not going to
write fiddly experiments today. We're
going to actually do something that's
going to be much more fun and also much
more interesting to watch.
Let me bring up the new simulator that
I've been working on
here. We also have chat. Are we on the
Discord? Yes. Uh the Discord is
discord.gg/puffer. Um oh, are we on the
Discord? Is that
toen? Hello.
Yo, what's up? How's it going, man?
Good, good, good. How are you doing?
Well, I just been working on new sims
and trying to fix crazy bugs for 3.
Should probably help. I finally have
some time to work. Oh, awesome.
Hello.
Yeah, I can hear you. Oh, yeah. Okay,
you're there.
Cool. You had uh you have some stuff you
want to chat about?
Nah, just hanging out. Okay. Surgery on
Tuesday.
Wait, you had surgery on Tuesday or
you're going to have surgery on Tuesday?
I have. Are you okay?
Yeah.
Well, I hope you're doing better, man.
[__] That's rough.
So, you say you're working on I was
seeing your plots like the It's supposed
to, you know, stuff is supposed to be
safe here. The hope was that like you no
longer have to be missing meetings with
malaria and [__] man.
That's kind of the point. I know, right?
Happens to the best of us. I mean, hey,
look, pneumonia nearly took me out over
uh uh over the holidays. So, I got But I
got I can blame that on Canada. I can I
don't even have to blame that on
America. I can blame that on Canadians.
Like, I don't know. It's supposed to be
chill here.
Canada.
Yeah. Yeah, they get another crack at me
at RLC, but
I don't remember how to prop up it so
long.
There's been a lot of new stuff.
Really? Is it compiling?
Is it compiling the same thing?
Yeah. Let me here. Let me see if I can
show you.
This is the new simulator I've been
working on.
Oh, we got to train it for our school at
the moment. Schooling, but it's it's
going to be a lot more than that.
I'm thinking it's going to be like some
big space combat or like space/ aerial
combat jam kind of a thing. Oh, nice.
Why is this not
training? I messed with the
config. Yeah, I messed with the
config.
Let's
see.
Actually, I think I have a pretty old
branch. I could uh I'm not like up to
date on your branch. There's a 300
branch now.
Oh,
really? I
I should be able to sync my branch with
All right, here's the latest sim.
Oh [__]
Pretty cool, right? Yeah, we got
puffers. They're schooling. They're
doing stuff.
What more policies are they learning?
Like what's the control objective here?
They're trying to go to the color that
matches their uh that match the color
orb that matches themselves and then
they change to another color when they
get there. You get these really cool
patterns.
It looks like a particle life. Yeah,
it's kind of that. But this is going to
be way more than that cuz like the thing
is we're actually going to be able to
make this do
some crazy stuff. So I all I got to do
is I switch the model. Hang
on. This
and go to the ship model.
Great. Is that a distributed ML
algorithm or
I I just trained it while we were
talking in 30 seconds on my local GPU.
Was it
buffer a neuronet network? What? Yeah,
it's a neural network. It's like like
each fish without a neuro network or
Yeah, it's just an instance of the same
net. It's the same way like you do code
or anything else. Okay.
All right. There's the uh the ship
model.
instead of the puffer fish, other ships,
little ships.
So, the point accidentally discover
mechanics for years. Yeah, maybe I But I
think we're going to start with like
some uh tactical type things. So, the
plan for today is to add in uh
combat. Okay. Oh, nice. I'm going to add
in combat and I'm going to add in uh
different abilities like each ship
they're going to handle differently and
stuff and we're going to go from there.
Color has a different behavior. Maybe
not color. We'll see how I do it. I
might go by color.
Maybe that would be a good way to do it.
Actually, that might be a good
suggestion.
Okay,
just here doing this while I have
experiments going in the background. And
then
also I'm trying to get support on the
tiny boxes that I bought because one of
them comes on and the other doesn't.
Tiny box. Is that a [__] by uh was it
that crazy guy? George Hots. Yeah,
George Hots. Yeah, this is the setup
right here with the tiny crazy guy. I
was talking about Oh, nice. Oh, [__] I
remember him talking about this.
They're literally right. If you check
here, that's
okay. They're on the wall behind me.
Holy [__] That's so
cool. I love the gym on the side, too.
Do you leave here? Pretty much.
Oh, that's crazy. GPU and gym. That's
all that needs. Yeah, pretty well. Got
my deadlift pressing set up. Bench got
crack on my The only thing that sucks is
I've got a bad knee and a bad rotator at
the moment. So, I can't do anything. So,
I'm just stuck sitting here coding
coding 14 16 hours a day because that's
all about that's pretty much everything
else I can do. So, but whatever. We're
going to get a whole bunch of work done
while I recover. Yeah. I mean, I think
it was a good workout, so
All right. Start
on start on
this. Python version.
Old Python version. Now we are 312
usually.
Oh, because it's asking me to use I
don't know. I mean I have the old I have
the whole
Oh, we've updated the container. We 312
is our default at the moment, but you
can use whatever.
Maybe I just uh move that one and push
move my code over to your plate.
Make sure you save that code. We
actually would really like that Robocode
and that would be a that's going to be a
very cool one. Okay, I'll back it up and
then
I'll frequency.
So the idea for today is going to be
we're going to introduce
handling. Um so I'm going to do like
float handling
float uh
I had to do max
I don't see 3.0 zero. Oh, never mind.
I was looking at my
[__] you.
What was that?
I'm going to dip out of here for a bit
so I get back to stream. But uh let me
know if you have stuff. All right. All
right. You too.
Cuz otherwise I'm just going to be like
narrating to myself with him just
hanging out.
So yeah, what I want to do
here actually helps me focus a lot. Uh,
just going through all my stuff out
loud,
too. Something like this. So, we have
like these update abilities.
Okay. And then we do agent items. So we
do update
abilities. And then if
they if they hit
this update the abilities as well.
And
now have move ship.
something basic like this, right?
Let me try one thing. They're uh telling
me to replace the or to do it with the
network unplugged for the behind.
thing gets farther
now. Also, these boot really slow
compared to desktop
mother side panel and check PCI aable
cables are seated.
biggest issue we've had in
shipping. Let me go check and see if
this boots here.
Seems like it does stuff.
I think if I reboot it, go direct to the
other menu or
what? They give it a few minutes.
Try that again. Hope that this boots and
then be able to keep working on the end
for a bit. But if I can actually get
these training today, I mean, that would
be awesome.
Well, I'm going to give it some time to
see if it uh does anything.
All
right, grab the uh where's the
chat chat Daniel.
See if this uh trains with the new
handling stuff and if it looks any
different.
Okay, it is starting to
train. So, we will see if we actually
notice a
difference assuming this does actually
train decently.
Not training super
well. Might just train for
longer. Love the training. Uh UI, thank
you. Okay, the green ones and the red
ones are doing
it. The yellow ones are like
slow. We'll let it train for a little
longer
though. at like
250.
See, still stuck on that
menu. I think I'm going to end up having
to go
um receat some GPUs.
Yeah, there we go. Just needed a little
longer to figure it out.
And this is
um
heterogeneous training in the sense that
not all the agents have the same
capabilities. That's pretty cool.
Yeah, this is really cool. So, like you
can see the green ones are super
fast, the yellow ones are super
slow. How do you figure out what the
best model architecture is? We do very
very little with the architecture.
Honestly, hyperparameters are the big
gotcha, not
architecture. This is straight up like a
linear layer or two into a uh LSTM and
then the LSTM is the core for
everything. I mean, this is sweet. This
is legitimately here. This is
heterogeneous heterogeneous learning.
and this trained in a minute. This is
not something I've actually seen done in
a very long time either. Like there are
very few cases of RL in RL of people
even doing this and it just
works. Like like to be clear here, it's
the same neural network uh controlling
each ship
independently even though the ships have
different capabilities. Like when they
change color, they have different
capabilities. Like they actually they
have like a wider turn radius, like a
much wider turn radius or like a much
wider like a much higher
speed. Hey,
Will. How's it going?
Yeah, I uh this project I started this
simulator yesterday for
reference. So this is literally and I've
worked on it like less than an hour
today. So this is one day of what Puffer
Lib can
do. Is there momentum for the puffers?
Uh there I don't think
there's they can't change like they're
locked to their maximum speed. So,
there's a turning radius basically.
There's not momentum, but there's a
turning radius. I want
it. What do you want to do with puffer,
man? We got all sorts of cool
RL. We're working on this. We've got a
new terraforming simulator we're working
on. I mean, I'm basically just stuck
with 300 because freaking we've got bugs
on the new machines that So, I'm having
tough times testing DDP on them. I guess
I could just boot up H00s, but I'd like
to test it locally. And then the much
bigger one is sweeps are driving me
insane because like there's a PF gap
between the old version and the current
version of sweeps even when I run the
old version of the code. So there's
something's haunted there. I've got some
experiments going on that. But as soon
as we fix that, it's kind of like, you
know, export all the new models, make
sure everything is fine, and then just
ship it. We already have the blog post
done. We've got basically everything.
It's super
cursed. But yeah, that's the been the
main thing that's been screwing me on 3
0 is just that one last thing I can't
track down. So, I got bored and I made
this yesterday. Um, I'm going to make
this like a full scale like ship combat
thing. So, I'm going to add the I'm
going to add the ability for them to
fire at each other and they're going to
have like different strengths and speeds
and stuff. So, uh, the hope is that
we're going to actually get some
tactical looking like full-on aerial
space sim thing and we're actually
really going to push the limits of what
we can do with like, you know,
decentralized multi- aent
intelligence. This is the small version
as well. Like I can train this way
bigger here.
Not. Let's see if it's stable at
4096 here. We'll see if this is stable.
Oh, I got to up the factories as
well. Huge congrats. Thanks, man. It's
been so much work. It's been so so much
work, but like RL kind of just works
now. Um, it's not like solved. There's
still stuff I need to do on the research
side, but
um yeah, it's good enough that we're
going to be able to solve a ton of
industry problems and uh hopefully that
will get us some bigger clients. So,
we'll uh kind of be able to just take on
bigger and bigger stuff from there. That
is the
hope. Any lessons on the research
side? Yeah, we're no longer just using
PO like we have some substantial
modifications to it. uh in the latest
version of the code. Um different
optimizer, learning rate schedule,
different advantage function, filtering,
prioritize replay. Like there's a bunch
of stuff that we did, but the like the
idea that it's like 80% just use PO, 20%
figure out some tweaks was pretty
spot-on. Okay, here's the big version of
the sim. It looks like it is almost
done. It's going to take three minutes.
Actually, I I overshot. So, it'll take 3
minutes to like finish the run. It's not
going to checkpoint till then. And then
we'll look at the 4096 agents version of
this. What was the fix for Clang? No
such file or
directory. Rerun the setup. You don't
you just don't have a version of Rayb.
Setup.py is supposed to install Ray for
you.
Like if that folder doesn't exist, the
setup.py is supposed to download it for
you. We'll try
again. Pip install- dot should get it.
You can check the setup.py file if not
or you can just download it manually
from Rayb,
but it ought to
work. Wasn't in. There you
go. Is really bad. By the
way, I suggest if you're going to use a
VN thing, I'd suggest
UB makes everything slow. like kind of
their C compiler is cursed. It just
produces 3x lower C code for no
reason. I miss a DM from you. Well,
let's see.
either. We can set you something up here
maybe. or Paulo Alto. What are you
trying to do with all this RL stuff?
It's pretty funny that nobody's buying
their uh the AMD tiny boxes. Everyone's
still buying the Nvidia ones cuz like
it's like free is not cheap enough for
AMD
hardware. All right.
Oh. Uh, I should have made the map
bigger. Will, but there you go. It still
looks pretty cool, right?
Yeah, that's pretty freaking
cool. So fast. Nah, man. We're trolling
at the moment. This is like a third of
the speed that it should be running at.
We should be able to train this like 4
million steps per second, no
problem. This is like the most dog [__]
optim like unoptimized code imaginable.
So you gota you got to realize like when
I like when I'm doing like horrible n
squ loops over everything like you got
to realize how bad RL was before that we
couldn't get stuff
working. This is like a few hundred
lines of
code. Oh yeah. You want to see something
fun? Yeah. Let me show you something
fun.
Uh, I might do Oct three stuff, but not
yet. I'm basically I'm going to do this
until I'm like forced to not do this,
you know.
No, it's not PO deacto. Like we have
modified PO to the like significantly
enough that you can't just call it
vanilla
PO. We have our own stuff now, man.
done a lot of
research. All right, so this is a little
harder to run fast, but
uh look at all the puffers.
Well, we'll go back to the fast glider
model, but it's funny to have the puffer
in there.
I'm trying to think if I want to add
combat right now or if I want to go deal
with freaking tiny boxes. I think I can
chill for a bit here and add some uh add
combat to this. That'll be fun. I will
have to do tiny boxes today,
but we can do this for a bit
first. This is should be a super
consistent training setup as well.
I feel they shouldn't be able to steer
that fast. Some of them steer fast and
some of them move fast. It's a
trade-off. So now you can do really
sample
efficient really do sample
efficiency. I mean I could. What I'd
rather do though is I'd rather just take
this, find some very important problems
in industry where we can build fast
sims, right? And just knock them out of
the park. So start with
that. Way easier to do that than it's
going to be to like do all the sample
efficiency research. We've kind of just
been doing R&D for the last year, right?
With like a few clients. We kind of want
to get some bigger stuff going at this
point. You know, the servers don't pay
for themselves.
Is RL scalable with infinite data or do
they saturate? Of course, it's scalable.
Why wouldn't it
be superhuman at
Dota? Super human at basically
everything we throw at it.
If this frame's in 100
mil depends on your class of
problem. Well, I think that we're
actually more likely to find some cool
problems in the high data regime because
like basically nobody's bothered with
those, right? Like because researchers
don't know how to code. But nobody's
bothered with the hm I wonder what
happens if we just build fast sims for
stuff for the most
part like there are a lot of useful
processes that I could probably build
multi-million step per second sims
for of horizon. So horizon is an issue.
Uh that's where like curriculum and
reward stuff comes in.
Um, you got to think of it as kind of
like breadcrumbs, right? You got like
the problem has to be self-contained and
learnable. But that's like that's not a
method problem, right? That's like a
fundamental like that's a fundamental
like intractability problem.
Okay, this clearly trains. Let's start
on
combat. Actually have You'd have to join
a
co. You'd have to join a
co. Some really good problems.
Why would I have to join a company when
they can just hire our company,
right? I like literally we're at the
point with all the stuff where I've
built where it's like it's way more
valuable to hire Puffer than it is to
just hire me because
like if you just hired me a year ago to
like work on some problem, right? It
wouldn't be as good as now. Like I
wouldn't have as good of a solution for
your specific problem as we now have out
of the box for basically all problems.
I mean that they could
do. I'm not really looking to like sell
Huffer for dimes and then like you know
join a thing though. I'd be way way
happier like and like honestly the best
value for companies is going to be to
toss us like some sizable
contracts. It's going to be the best
value for them.
Like there really aren't any like
there's not really any reason to not do
that because the thing is like all our
core stuff is open source. So it's not
like you're dependent on like some third
party locked API, right?
I think I'll change your mind. We can
chat if you've got
ideas. Are you still based in SF? Have
you wait are you based in SF still or
you
moved? Cuz I got to say it would be a
pretty big number to get me to go from
here to SF. It's like and I'm probably
going to be more productive from here
anyways. SF is kind of
depressing. I don't know.
It depends what the It depends what the
purpose is,
right? Like what is the thing like
what's the
idea? Like are
we is it like hey we're going to solve
uh space age materials fabrication with
reinforcement learning or is it like
we're going to sell more ads with
reinforcement
learning? Right.
Because like I can be persuaded to sell
more ads with reinforcement learning,
but then I'm basically going to have to
be set where it's like, "All right, I'll
come do this for a year or two. We'll
fix that." And then I'm going to be set
for the next indefinite amount of time
to go do cool research and like fund
whatever stuff I want, right?
Because pretty much my goal is to just
be able to do all sorts of fundamental
tech research and to be able to bankroll
it. I kind of just want to be able to
have my own private
lab where I do crazy
things, which is sort of what we're
doing now. Just slightly larger scale
than this, but we're already doing quite
a bit. All right, so this is super cool.
This just works. Let's uh let's add in
combat and see what happens. So the idea
for combat
here, private lab with a farm is
academia dream. Yeah, dude. Like I get
so much more work done here. It's not
even close. Like there are zero
distractions whatsoever. Um normally it
wouldn't be 14 16 hours a day, right? It
would be like 12 to 14 because I would
get some more exercise in. Uh I'm
freaking bad shoulder, bad knee,
whatever. So, I can't do anything. But,
uh, I mean, still, it's like it's pretty
great for focus. And then in the last
couple weeks, I've just been trying to
cut out like all the filler crap, right?
Like I would just I've been like
watching tons of just YouTube and [__]
just in between doing other things. And
like even if you're not wasting any time
that you could be working just like in
between stuff, it still takes your mind
off of problems. So, I've been trying to
just like really focus myself to only
think about research and like I've come
up with a lot of good stuff as a result
of
that. Things are getting like pretty
damn dialed in.
Okay.
So, we got to add
attack damage and attack rage. Get out
of here,
bot. I code the bot, not
you. And one thing
You got to do attack damage and attack
speed,
right? Or is it attack whatever
Okay.
So, we need to do angle to target, I
believe. Uh, that is slightly
awkward.
So, angle to target.
There
normalize.
No. All right.
this. Okay. And now what we got to do is
shoulder is just so screwed up. I can't
even put it on the
armrest. Back range.
And we need
angle. Is this
it? That doesn't seem right, is it? Oh
yeah, it is. It is just arc close, isn't
it? And that's in
radians. So 90° is pi / 2. We do pi over
4ish, maybe
45°ree, that's like
this. That's too wide.
30° over six.
return
false. Now we do damage which is going
to be
You want to do damage calcs in
this? I have to respawn the agent,
right?
reward. Don't
I just do it this way. So this is just
the attack function just tells
you, right?
Yeah, the attack function is just going
to tell you this. So we
do if
attack. So this is where we have to do
the jank thing, right? So we have to do
for this terrible jank
thing. Okay. Okay. And then we have to
do
if
[Music]
not continue. Okay. And then we are
attacking. So the target
HP down by damage.
Um, add some reward for
this. Target HP is zero. Then we respawn
it.
And it also needs to be uh its reward
needs to be canned, right?
We have to do mems set on the rewards.
Yeah, that thing's stuck. I'm going to
have to go do maintenance at some point
later today. Let's ignore that for now,
though.
do
that. We are accounted for
here. This
They only attack things on a different
team.
And that's about it, right?
Okay. So, we'll see if this does
anything.
overflowing some agents times times.
This is unsigned
char. Okay, cool.
Now, if there is in front of them an
agent of a different
color, they should be
fighting. We'll see if that does
anything.
Episode length three seems to imply that
they are killing each other all the
time.
Whoops. Okay, that might be
1 is a pretty big
radius. Kind of
reasonable probably just too many
agents, right? So like let me think if
you were to
have I think 1,024 like tops, right?
and a map that size.
That trains faster as
well. Probably have to draw the
lasers.
Let's add a in Target.
and draw a line segment like that.
Right. Now we actually should be able to
see what they're
doing. Except that if they die, it's
going to
be it's going to be jank.
I think what I want to
do is something just very slightly
different
here. Kind of tough at how to do this.
It might end up having to be multiple
passes. We'll do this for now.
Yeah.
Jeez.
Holy. Yeah, that's not what we wanted,
right?
something screw with this. It should
only be like 10% of the uh the volume
for attack
range. These are like super long lines,
right? Yeah, you can see
them. Oh, it's cuz I didn't clear. Did I
not clear the target?
and clear the
target. Okay, so that's way too fast,
first of all.
But like the lines are too long as well.
It shouldn't be able to do that. But I
think what's happening is Yeah, I know
why this is happening. Okay. Trying to
think how I fix
that. I think we do all the moves
happen.
So all the moves happen
first and then all the attacks
happen after.
And
then this target health
thing. Okay. This like target health
thingy. This is now going to be
Okay, they are fighting here.
I can figure out how to like make the
lasers not just be one frame later.
Right. For now, this is fine.
very very low range that they have.
It's annoying. Um, shoulder is not
liking me typing up
here. Put my keyboard on my lap. Hate
typing this way as well, but
's comfortable, man.
Like there is just not
Happy. Okay. So, that's way more
obvious,
right? Yeah. And now they're kung fu
fighting. Spawn each color in a
uh a different corner, I guess.
Remove the target seeking reward.
target seeking
reward. Instead, we just do combat and
then
All
right, let's see what this
does. See if this gives us something
like interpretable.
Well, the episode length is decreasing,
which means they must be
fighting. Oh, it goes back
up kind of.
We shall
see. Might have to add like a scripted
faction. Whoa.
What? Huh?
Let's uh let's make the spawns a little
bit more
reasonable. We're getting very close to
crazy things here.
So the thing that I forgotten about
um so this has got to be -1F 1.0
F which is
like okay zero we got negative one got
one I don't know what we do with the
last guys
do this. We'll see what they do.
episode length has been going back up,
but it's actually hard to know what that
means in a vacuum.
dude.
Is this like greens up? Yeah, this is
green spawning here. So, the greens are
getting spawn
camped. That's no good.
supposed to do health.
make it easier to
see. All right, we're going to train
this. Then I'm going to figure out what
we're going to do from here cuz this is
like this was not all that difficult to
get like the basics
of to figure out how to make it more
coordinated and
stuff. I should be able to actually
arrange these reasonably if I'm smart
about it. I'm trying this
Okay, we will see what this does. Grab a
drink though. Like to fix the shoulder,
man.
Don't even have a tub here or anything
yet. Like soak this
thing.
Uhhuh. Whoa.
Look at these
Guys, anybody spawn in the corner or
they just going there to like avoid
being
killed? The blue ones are just like,
"Yeah, we're going to the go to the
corner." Enemy OP. What can we
do?
Oh, okay. randomly raining very hard all
of a sudden out of nowhere.
Let me think what I actually want to do
with this sim. Like, how far do I want
to take this thing? I think I want to
do a few different types of
ships. Let me see like find some games I
can use for inspiration.
There's a game that used to be on
iOS
battle. You'll find
it at
gravity. Is it
this? I forget what it was.
There are lots of them though,
right? I
also I would like to be able to reskin
this thing pretty easily. Like if I want
it to be like space or like air ground
or
whatever. So
like
tank. What are usually like the unit
types people have? It's like
infantry like tank.
How do you use RL for something like
Magic the Gathering where a human onlyly
interacts through clicking a UI? Uh like
this we have had there's a PR I have to
merge on this that adds a lot of more
stuff to it. But this was like a very
super basic prototype. Okay. So like you
can play a land can't do anything else
on your first turn except actually yeah
that's a zero cost. Do this. I can swing
with uh I can swing with
this and then let's see I can play my
land. I can play my two
cost and then I can swing with this and
this. Let's
see that. And then I can let's play the
three cost. Swing with this this and
this. Um, and then, oh, I'm getting
attacked. So, I have to block with my
Yeah, I'll block with this. And then
like that. And then, can I play this
yet? No, I can't play that
yet. So, I'm going to swing. Four, five,
six, seven, eight. And I win. That is
how I would make Magic the Gathering
work for reinforcement learning.
You can play, you can play it entirely
with your number keys and
enter. If you want to help finish that,
Sim, we could use some help.
You don't need to have you don't need it
to click random pixels on the screen
though. That's the point. You just get
the data out of
it. Like the clicking random pixels is
like internally it's just triggering the
function of like clicking the card.
You'd go through the API and if you
don't want to go through the API, you
would do some basic vision thing on top
of it. You wouldn't end RL it like
usually you just go through the API.
You can, by the way, you can absolutely
make RL end to end on pixels with
clicking. Like that works. It's just way
more
expensive because you have to run a
really slow environment. You have to
learn perception and end.
Hey,
hyper the daily dam.
Welcome. I think we change let's change
the sizes a little bit.
X Y
Z.
Yes.
Okay. Like X is like four.
Yeah, that's really cool.
Y is zero.
What I
do? Ah, respawn.
How do I do like orbit
speed? I'd like to slow down the orbit.
Move speed. Rot
speed. No, this is a manual one. There's
a built-in orbit
camera.
Going. Okay. So, this is the original
policy. Yeah. It doesn't really know
what to do at the moment. It seems that
wasn't trained on this
N. Mostly going to
scatter. See if we can train it on
this. I'm curious if it'll
learn. If episode length comes back
down, then it's learning.
Okay, it's
learning.
Basically, the only way that episode
length can come down is if they're
fighting. So, they are learning to
fight. The one annoying thing about
having like these selfplay type
environments, it's actually it's quite
hard to get like a, you know, how good
is like what's a good number to have.
We're just going to have to look at the
policies for a bit until we um we put
some more formal infrastructure in
place. Oops. Message from Spencer.
just do anything.
They don't really seem to just like they
don't seem like a coherent
path. They might just be scaredy-cats,
though. Let's see if they're
scaredy-cats. Maybe they just need to
not Maybe we need to make them more like
soldier ants where they have no regard
for their own
life. Let's see if that
helps. All
right, there is
No longer a reward, a penalty for
getting shot.
Oh, and then we actually
end there. That way I can actually track
the return.
Now, this should keep going up because
now it's a cooperative environment kind
of. There we go.
Yeah, this seems much better,
Don't need this. Well, now I got to do
it. Way better. We'll see. Got to see
the
policy. I wonder why they're like
dispersing so much like this.
They're definitely doing more
fighting. Memory ain't your dumb. Don't
forget to delete the
pointers, my guy. There are no dynamic
memory
allocations. You malic once at the start
of the uh at the end of creation and
that's all the memory you use. It's
optimized for static
me. Pretty
cool. I think we can get some way more
coherent stuff out of this. Actually, we
can crank up the number of agents now.
That'll make it more coherent.
simulate 100 pointers versus
puffer. We got some
pointers. I don't know. Sea is just
easy, man.
This is like so easy to be doing this
stuff and
see. I'm very happy with uh the way I've
decided to set up all our infrastructure
in our
Sims. Why is it so slow now?
Oh, it's cuz it does a check over. Yeah,
it's N squ,
dummy. Well, I'll just make the map
smaller
instead. This is what I'll do instead,
right?
Two. Just make the map smaller. That'll
have this exact same effect.
No, seriously. C is
easy. We don't use it cuz like I don't
like annoying complicated things, man.
Read the code. It's freaking so
basic. It's like first year undergrad
level programming like in terms of the
things that I'm using. It's just I'm
using them very
nicely. I got brand new programmers
writing uh C environments with us.
It's a good
time. And the funny thing is I hated C
for 10 years. You know why? Cuz when
they taught it in uh in undergrad, they
didn't tell you what an address
sanitizer
was. But yeah, C with no address
sanitizer sucks. C with an address
sanitizer, very
easy. A dress sanitizer catches like 95%
of the bugs that everyone hates.
Okay, way better.
Right now we can actually see what's
happening. Oh
yeah, that's a full-on battle.
That's like amazingly that worked like
amazingly
well. That's solid.
Commit the current
version. All
right.
So, let's see. So, next
up, I think we want to
do units, like different units, right?
We already have the basic infrastructure
in place for
that. We also have to clean up some
code, but we can do units before we do
that.
Oh, let me just send this to
Will. I think he'll appreciate this.
unit
type. This is going to be instead of
item, we'll leave this for now. We'll do
int unit
uh fighter
Ank top three favorite singers. My guy,
I literally can't tell you the last time
I've like intentionally put on any
music.
I don't know. I don't do much outside of
this. I couldn't tell you top three
favorite movies
either. Is what it is.
The only one of those names I recognize
is Michael
Jackson. And I can't name you a single
Michael Jackson
song.
Anime? I haven't watched any in a while.
Let me think.
I I used to have favorites that I
actually don't even [__] remember,
man.
I actually I really like the art style
and everything of it.
It's nowadays for whatever reason um
studios have decided that every
protagonist must be a little [__] So
it's like the hell? I don't know.
there's
uh something off
culturally if that's what
uh what goes
well. I think the idea is like oh look
he's completely useless just like me or
whatever. I don't know.
What? You're surprised the uh the guy
who streams freaking RLD Dev 14 hours a
day doesn't do much else?
I like games actually more than
anything, but the problem is I can't
allow myself to play any because they're
straight
heroin. I don't know. I've got like
probably together 7 8,000 hours in a
couple of different
MMOs and then like a much much smaller
amount in a few competitive games.
I've
seen I didn't finish Dundad
Don. I never got into HunterX Hunter. I
watched the other
ones. I think Death Note is the best of
those. Yeah, by far it
is. I mean, I watched that when I was
like 14 or something, probably. It was
the first anime I watched. That's That
was a
good I'm trying to be a code machine,
man. Like, science has got to get
advanced, right?
It's just really freaking
tough when you have your head clouded
with a ton of other stuff. It's really
tough. I take like a day off a week and
um I get some exercise in. Currently,
I've been playing Satisfactory on my day
off which has just been chill.
I can't do 14 to 16 sustainably no
matter what I'm working on. I can only
do it when I'm working on like cool new
stuff
uh and like certain other
things. But at the moment, yeah, that's
what I'm doing.
average Chinese
worker.
Jojo. Yeah, I know.
Jojo, that's like those are pretty good
hours.
I think this is all kind of
fine. We just need to like
I don't know.
just let's
All right. So, now we have this fighter
agent. Got this like reasonably
done. Just
um rest of
this this
Looks reasonable.
Right now we have to do scales.
identifier
agent. Ah, it's entity.
Okay. Yeah, those are too freaking big.
But
We'll show you what this
does. All
right, battle train and we'll see
whether we have spaceship battle sim and
come back right back.
Okay. I mean, this is It says it's doing
something.
Holy, that's a space battle sim and a
half. What on
earth? Yo.
They got way too many tanks, I
think. Yeah, they got way too many
tanks.
I'm just going to recompile and rerun
without
training to
see. So, they got a ton of fighters, a
few tanks, and then the mother ship.
[Laughter]
This is something. Pull away.
Yeah, that's cool.
I don't like how it's like the
continuous streams rather than like
clouds though. So, the thing I was
thinking about is respawning them on the
mother ship.
So now they
respawn on the position of the mother
ship.
Is that
right? Yeah, they all kind of like just
showed up at the same spot randomly.
What's happening
here? It's like they all spawn
here. Know why they all spawn in there?
That's weird.
What? How' this
happen? Yeah, this is the mother ship,
right?
Oh, right.
Yeah, this is fine.
Yeah, they all spawn from the same spot
for some
reason.
Hm.
Oh, I think I know.
Yeah, that works.
Yeah, this should be pretty cool
looking cuz now like the thing is they
should kind of spawn in clouds and I
think you'll get like more reasonable
like battles out of it.
Oh, that's freaking
cool. Yeah. Look, like here comes like
this whole cloud of like new fighters,
right?
might be cooler with the random
corner. Do random corner.
Now there's some randomization in
it. It'll produce some interesting
battles.
Holy.
Okay. Think it's too long right now,
right? Like it would be cooler
with this
format. I think with this format it's
going to be cooler if I do like like
this maybe
This is so boring. I can feel my hair
growing. If watching
uh Science Advanced Live is boring, then
you're free to go back to Tik Tok.
This is some pretty awesome
science. I think we'll we have to do
like a little bit of All right. We have
to write a few things here to get this
into like the most empty corner, I
think.
this this. Oh, we do need this
type. Oh.
This gives you the minimum
distance, but it should not be agent
have these chords
correct. This is like negative
1,1 positive one.
one.
[Music]
I think this is it.
I'm just trying to find the farthest
like the best corner to spawn them in.
This is the closest agent.
Yeah, there it is. So, the distance of
from the other agent to the corner
Okay. like
distance of
There we
are. So, this is uh was a fair bit of
code, but if I have this correct
expected
expression. This needs to be curly
braces. So, if I have this correct, this
should look a lot better because they
will no longer spawn on top of each
other. They should only
spawn near the uh the nearest what is
it? A corner that's relatively free.
Yeah. So, they're all spawning on top of
each other. So, I probably did. It's
probably the other way
around. Yeah. Yeah, we want max desk.
Boom. See if this does what we want and
then we'll retrain.
Okay, first of all, that's not the right
coordinate. And second of all, they're
still spawning on top of each
other. Okay.
did not
rebuild. That seems
weird. Like that's not what I would have
expected it to have
done. Oh yeah, they shouldn't be able to
spawn there.
Interesting.
those distances make
sense. I think they
do. This has got to be float.
We'll see if that does
anything. Okay.
Yeah, that was a reasonable spawn. That
was a reasonable spawn.
Perfect. Oh, this is so much better.
I mean, that's
freaking that's pretty crazy.
spread them out a little more. Maybe
Not quite enough ships, I
think, to do it that
way. I'd like it to be sparser. It's
going to look cooler.
I'm done asking. So you admit you've
asked. You admit
it. Aha.
Now, that was my brother-in-law. Yeah.
Okay. So, it runs in the family is what
you're saying.
That's pretty freaking cool.
Get him to retrain.
and just enjoy the cool uh the cool
simulations
today. We got some real fun stuff.
This might be too difficult for it to
learn. See
the 30 second delay. That's called
YouTube. It's better on Twitch.
not really a music stream.
Not really one of
those. The fact that this works is kind
of crazy.
See, actually I can just There's
Nice project. Thank you.
That's pretty freaking
cool. Each one has a job. This is a new
version. We have um I mean there are
fighter units. There are like frigots
and then there's a mother ship. And this
is a large scale
combat. This is a thousand unit
battle. You can see the uh the lasers
going off. We've got like space battle
sim.
That's so freaking
cool. Why don't you make 3D
games? This is research, man.
not just
entertainment in advanced science with
this as
well. You can actually play uh the ones
that we have that are like games on
buffer.ai like they are up
there, but it's not the main point of
it, you know.
It should be really easy to add like a
height map to this, right? What language
is this?
See, let's go get the pearl and noise
stuff. Let's Let's add this First,
That's
app index.
What's the best I didn't see it. Uh,
what's the best book to learn C C++ for
absolute beginners? I didn't really use
a book.
Um, like I did I picked up like lower
level stuff a little tiny bit in
college. Stanford's like CS 106x and
then 107. I think you can get the
lectures for those online now. Um, I
don't think that they're super amazing
courses to be
honest. And actually like arguably they
put me off of low-level programming for
a long
time. The thing with like what I'm doing
here is like there's really just not
that much to learn. like you kind of
just need to know what the heap is and
know what a pointer is. And like other
than that, it's it's not really any
different from writing code in any other
language except you don't use as many
stupid overly abstracted data types and
your code is actually
fast. Like if you actually look at the
code I'm writing here, it's mostly just
loops and conditionals, right? as well
as memory
accesses. There's like actually nothing
in here that a first year CS student
who's taken like any course like
anything at all in C or C++ wouldn't
understand. I don't know. It's kind of
like um you know I do I do not fear the
man who has practiced 10,000 kicks. I
fear the man who has practiced the same
kick 10,000 times. It's kind of that
like you don't have very many
tools, but you use them
if you actually want to code some cool
cool stuff and not just troll me. Like
we actually do teach people a lot of
this stuff in the discord. You got to
not just be trolling asking me to oil up
though. Like most of the people in uh
Puffer like vast majority of them came
in with zero reinforcement learning
experience. Some of them not even with
like really low-level systems
programming experience. So that
definitely helps.
Um, it's kind of a a rare thing now
where with the way I have Puffer Lib,
like it's actually not that difficult to
be able to contribute to cutting edge
science uh without having to like have a
huge amount of background
experience. They will have a short
intermission here while I watch nice
hummingbird
outside.
Those things are so
nice.
discord.gg/puffer. There he
goes. You will get kicked if you spam it
with dumb stuff. But if you actually
want to learn things, yeah, pull
I mean asking politely is not the same
be as thing as being polite, right? I
can say please go [__] yourself. It's
not polite just cuz I said
please. That's not how it works.
That's not how it works, sir.
Yeah, there's not an age limit on
it. There's actually there's um I think
he's 15 or 16. There's another guy who's
in high school who
uh is actually like building all sorts
of cool things now. Been learning a lot.
I mean that's when I started like
working on AI pretty much around that
What languages should I learn after I
finish Python? Python and C is really a
pretty solid stack. Honestly, you can do
a lot with it. It's pretty much all I
use these days.
The thing is like actually learning how
to program the fundamentals are all in
C. Like C++ is just a bunch of [__]
bolted on to
C where you're really just learning like
you know the libraries that are included
in the language, not really the
language. And then C is like I think
it's mainly just in Unity and like
gamedev people use it and it's kind of
similar. I mean, it's it's kind of all
the same thing, right? Like, programming
is programming. Some languages get in
your way. Some languages get out of your
way. That's all there is to it.
discord.gg/puffer. Nice and easy to
remember. I paid extra for that URL.
I better not see dumb messages on
here. Yeah, that's you.
That is the Discord. I mean, it has a
puffer fish on it. It's not that hard
to, you
know. Yeah, it's the one with the
puffer.
So s he's just chilling. He's working on
some stuff. If uh he's probably watching
the stream. If he has questions, he'll
just put them in here and then I'll uh
jump in the voice and help him. Kind of
how I run stuff.
You'll usually see that like most
evenings there'll be a few people
hanging out building stuff.
What language? Several. He's a PhD
student. You'll see like it's a pretty
decent mix of people in the Discord.
We've got like PhDs, current PhD
students. We've also got people who just
started programming and are just trying
to do cool stuff. We've got like
self-taught hobbyists. We've got like
lots of different types of people in
here. And then Weston, who's a high
school student, is currently working on
a Sudoku and to be solved with
reinforcement learning.
But yeah, it's a pretty damn good way to
learn
AI. And I give you somewhat of a pass
with the trolling cuz Lord knows I was
stupid as hell at 15, at least socially,
even if I was pretty decent already
technically. But yeah, try to keep it
mostly mostly on the tech stuff, you
know.
red teamrer at
cyersack. Yeah, that's a popular
wannabe. Like that's a popular job.
People
like system stuff takes you far for
that.
mostly looking for like low-level
systems dev. C will take you pretty far
for that. The end
assembly probably also need JavaScript
at some point because of web exploits,
but uh no web stack
stuff. But like learning languages is
not the hard part is the thing. You'll
find that as you get better. Like
learning languages is not the hard part.
like I can just pick up and like I can
pick up and be proficient in any new
programming language. I feel like within
a
week it's not like learning like a a
speaking language,
right? I wouldn't think of languages
like easy or hard.
Um like the thing is nobody writes all
their stuff in assembly,
right? Assembly is for optimizing at the
level of the individual instructions
provided to the machine used in very
high performance code and also in some
embedded stuff.
That would be the way to look at it.
texture.
We allocate that
thing. There we go.
Oh yeah, this is the other end I was
doing, right? This terraforming
env. I forgot how awesome that thing
looks.
data is not valid to load texture.
that
width. Terrain terrain width terrain
height, right?
There,
dummy. So, loaded successfully.
extra
loaded. Okay, so everything is loaded,
it
says, but we don't see anything.
Okay. So, that doesn't freaking do
anything.
Ah, this is
it. Okay, so now we have our normal
stuff. If I do
this, we got this back again.
Now if I draw the
[Music]
terrain. Cool. Very big plane.
No. If I can even get this in the right
spot.
some reason it's not even
centered. I know it is
Yeah, it's not
um you like
this. There we are.
So, let's see uh why this thing does
not go uh height map
yet. Make sure it's not the
shader. It's not the
shader. That shader
Ash need this update thing, right?
Client terrain texture. There
We have these two lines, right?
Ah, that
something. That might be something. It's
hard to say.
This has terrain, but where's the
uh displacement? This is just flat,
isn't it?
There we go.
Pretty
cool. There we go.
I think it's like 64 or something.
Oh, see they uh they still they just go
through the terrain.
I've kind of just been coding on this
thing and not really realizing the time.
Got dinner
soon. See if we can get collisions
working first.
Looks pretty
good. We'll go right through it.
Actually, it's fine either way.
Welcome,
Georgie. We're building this thing right
now. Crazy spaceship. Whatever sim
thing.
just joined. It looks like you're trying
to write a model
parser. Not quite.
Um, I am
currently attempting to get the ships to
actually collide with the ground collect
uh correctly, though I am going to
dinner in a few. Been streaming all day.
I will be back after though because this
is fun and I'll probably want to work on
this for quite a bit. I need to get the
ships to collide with the terrain. I
just have the indexing wrong
somehow. Ah, this is supposed to be Z.
Get rest overflow.
Um,
terrain width times terrain
height. Odd that this does not
Oh. Oh, it's
negative. Yeah, that's what happened.
I
Okay. Okay. We are still um
We're still uh off somehow, but I got to
get dinner in a second. Um, for the
folks watching, just so I uh in case I
have to go in a like moment like uh on
short notice
here, this is all free open source stuff
at puffer.ai. And if you want to help me
out for free, you can start the repo.
And if you want to build some of this
stuff with us, learn some reinforcement
learning if you're already good at
reinforcement learning. Either way, join
the Discord. discord.gg/puffer.
GG/puffer. Yeah, I got to go.